---
sidebar_position: 7007
---

# TN7007: Task Queue

## Abstract

The Recative System provides a task queue manager to schedule different types of
tasks while the application is preloading and running, this article will give
developers a brief introduction about these queues and its usage in the system.

## Two different task queues

There are two types of task queues: `FrameFillingQueue` and `SequentialQueue`.

They are both designed to manage asynchronous tasks and address performance
issues that arise due to JavaScript's single-threaded nature. When asynchronous
tasks take longer than a frame's "safe time" to complete, it can lead to browser
rendering freezing, which can negatively impact user experience. These two
queues aim to solve this issue by scheduling tasks effectively.

- Both `FrameFillingQueue` and `SequentialQueue` are ordered collections of
  elements that are added to the queue in a sequential manner.

- Both classes follow the FIFO (First-In-First-Out) principle, i.e., the first
  element added to the queue is the first to be removed.

* Both classes have a similar implementation for the enqueue and dequeue
  methods, with the only difference being the order in which the elements are
  processed.

### `FrameFillingQueue`

The `FrameFillingQueue` follows a greedy strategy, managing tasks on a per-task
basis. When a task is completed, the queue checks whether there is enough time
remaining in the frame to execute another task. If enough time is available, the
next task is called immediately.

However, this approach can result in frame drop
problems if there is enough time left but not enough to complete the new task.
The scheduling strategy of the FrameFillingQueue is to clear tasks as soon as
possible, and the trade-off of possible frame drops is considered acceptable.

### `SequentialQueue`

The `SequentialQueue`, on the other hand, takes a more conservative approach to
scheduling tasks. It groups several tasks into a task group and executes
multiple task groups concurrently. Before executing another task group, the
queue checks whether there is enough remaining time in the frame to do so
safely.

Developers can fine-tune the user experience by adjusting the number of
concurrent tasks and the "safe time."

## A high level wrapper `TimeSlicingQueue`

`TimeSlicingQueue` is a class that unifies `FrameFillingQueue` and
`SequentialQueue`, providing developers with a consistent API for managing
asynchronous tasks.

When a developer instantiates a `TimeSlicingQueue`, they pass in the `QueueType`
as an argument. The TimeSlicingQueue then internally creates an instance of
either `FrameFillingQueue` or `SequentialQueue` based on the specified
`QueueTypes`.

### Dependency queue

`dependencyQueue` refers to the internal queue used by `TimeSlicingQueue` to
manage the dependencies between different tasks. When a task is added to the
TimeSlicingQueue, it can have a dependency on one or more other tasks in the
queue.

For example, consider a scenario where we have three tasks: Task A, Task B, and
Task C. Task A is dependent on Task B, and Task B is dependent on Task C. This
means that Task C must be completed before Task B can start, and Task B must be
completed before Task A can start.

To manage these dependencies, `TimeSlicingQueue` uses a `dependencyQueue` which
keeps track of the tasks that are waiting for their dependencies to be
completed. When a task is added to the TimeSlicingQueue, the queue checks
whether any of its dependencies are still waiting in the dependencyQueue. If so,
the task is added to the `dependencyQueue` as well and is marked as waiting for
its dependencies to be completed.

Once a task's dependencies have been completed, it is moved from the
`dependencyQueue` to the main task queue where it can be executed. This ensures
that tasks are executed in the correct order and that all dependencies are
satisfied before a task is started.

## Episode level public queue

### Default task queue configuration

The Episode Core library provides two default queues: the fast queue and the
slow queue. These queues have different parameter configurations, with the
fast queue having a higher concurrency level and the slow queue having a smaller
concurrency level.

Additionally, the slow queue has a dependency on the fast queue, which means
that tasks in the slow queue will not execute until all tasks in the fast queue
have finished. This ensures that any dependencies or prerequisites are met
before the slow queue starts processing its tasks.

:::info
Resource loading is also managed by the task queue, blocking resources are
managed by the `fastQueue` and non-blocking resources are managed by the
blocking resources.
:::

### Interactive program initialization

Interactive programs can register their initialization tasks into the task queue
to make sure your task won't cause frame drop while there are a lot of tasks
have to be done.

Here is an example:

```ts
import {
  createPixiApp,
  createActPointManager,
} from '@recative/ap-core';

function main() {
  const appManager = createActPointManager();
  const pixiApp = createPixiApp({
    context: appManager.context,
    pixiOptions: { backgroundColor: 0xffffff },
    resolutionMode: 'window',
  });
  appManager.add(pixiApp);
  document.body.appendChild(appManager.domElement);

  const Main = () => {
    // Some logic to draw your interface.
  };

  appManager.requireInitializeTask(() =>
    // Your first initialize task.
  );
  appManager.requireInitializeTask(() =>
    // Your second initialize task.
  );

  appManager.initialized.finally(() => {
    // The task is initialized
    pixiApp.add(Main);
  });

  if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development') {
    pixiApp.context.ticker.replay();
  }
}

main();
```
