---
sidebar_position: 1001
---

# ST1002: Configuration Files

## Introduction

Configuration files are which should always be stored in the user's local
machine and never be synchronized among different devices. These files will be
located in `~/.ap-studio`. This article will give a brief introduction to these
files.

## SSL Certifications

### How to enable the SSL feature

While developing interactive programs, developers may need to use a SSL
certificate to test some features, like gyroscope. To achieve this, please
follow the guide:

Create the ~/.ap-studio/ directory if it doesn't already exist. You can do this
by opening a terminal window and entering the following command:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.ap-studio/
```

This will create the .ap-studio directory in your home directory if it doesn't
already exist.

Copy your SSL certificate and private key files to the `~/.ap-studio/`
directory. Make sure to name the files `cert` and `privkey`, respectively, and
ensure that they are in the proper format. The `cert` file should contain your
SSL certificate, and the `privkey` file should contain your private key.

Verify that the files are in the proper directory by entering the following
command in a terminal window:

```bash
ls ~/.ap-studio/
```

This should list the `cert` and `privkey` files in the output. After the file
is in the right place, `@web-media/ap-pack` and the Web Media Foundation Studio will
automatically enable HTTPS and use these files as certifications.

### Make sure the file is right

The SSL certificate file typically has a file extension of `.crt` or `.pem`. It
contains information about your website or application, including the domain
name, the issuer, and the public key. You can view the contents of the SSL
certificate file by opening it in a text editor.

Here's an example of what the contents of an SSL certificate file might look
like:

```
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
MIIF6DCCBNCgAwIBAgIQW8PRk9HbtByevjEcD5F5mzANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFADBN
MQswCQYDVQQGEwJVUzEVMBMGA1UEChMMRGlnaUNlcnQgSW5jMRkwFwYDVQQLExB3
```

The private key file typically has a file extension of `.key` or `.pem`. It
contains the secret key used to encrypt and decrypt data sent between the client
and the server. You should keep the private key file secret and never share it
with anyone. You can view the contents of the private key file by opening it in
a text editor.

Here's an example of what the contents of a private key file might look like:

```
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
MIIEogIBAAKCAQEAyG3qCB8Vos/yuAfPb35QZzJ3q+b8W7zTqdTgR9yxDpCmF8W0
lOv30Fwu0i6Y4PS4M4I0ejvvy6yXuz6crlS6Q/z99mUvHQDlx/qiwLv72Y4lP4p
```

# Android Certifications

To automatically sign an Android bundle, developers need to provide their `pk8`
and `pem` files.

`pk8` and `pem` are file extensions that refer to private key and certificate
files respectively, which are required for signing an Android APK (Android
application package).

An Android APK is signed with a private key to ensure its authenticity and
integrity. The private key is typically generated by the developer and is kept
secret. The certificate is used to verify the authenticity of the signed APK.
Both the private key and certificate are required for signing the APK.

Developers will need to put file with these extensions in the
`~\.ap-studio\android` directory, and create an android bundling profile in the
settings view.
